XVII

INTRODUCTION

Anaxagoras, who smiled when he beheld his ruined property ;
nor Fabricius, preferring love to gleaming silver; nor Piso, refus-
ing to enrich his son with gifts. Whose heart is filled with
greed, his punishment is sure, as witness Alexander and the Cy·
prian Ptolomeus, who lost his life in' his miserly love for wealth.
The wise man, roo, restrains himself from wrath; so Archytas,
the pupil of Pythagoras and master of all his lore, who did not
chide his slave who allowed tares and weeds to overrun his
fields; so Plato who refused to be disturbed by the report that
Xenocrates was slandering him3 and not the wise man only, but
the masters of the world as well : — Pyrrhus, forgiving the taunts
of the people of Tarentum; the great king Titus, who counted
that day lost on which he did no good, and forgave those who
tried to murder him. Not like him was Eteocles or his brother
Polynices, who, in their mad passion for their father's throne,
fought in combat like two bulls on Calabria's hills and died by
each other's hand. Such follies of men were the reason for the
weeping of one philosopher which all the beauties of nature could
not assuage, - the starry skies, the verdant fields of spring, the
song of birds, the changing seasons, but they were cause of
laughter to that other who declared that man’s crazy passions
and his hateful deeds were but a joke. Thesetwo were not held
slave by pleasure, nor was the com any of Pythagoras, nor the
learned troop of Stoics ; nor was ol Cato, eloquent in speech, in ’
driadnilelrbhbuitillowldduy’difflwbsdsiadreibsspldasydidrnlbatmae (good only
but the highest good. Such a one was Sardanapalus, preferring
wyslman'sdgarb and ways to man’s, and Xer-xes, endowmg cooks
tethfealhttttlttnatlattritttttttllhttllhtt
food. If among the many Ι haye mentioned who mastered
then desires, you find no modern names, then men of old and
men of now are not alike. If he is not wise whom any passion
sways‚ then in this day of ours there is no wise man. Α

« Pig w,

IV.

From Ocean’s shore, Philus, I send you this letter to show
my thought of you and to beg you to remember me. I miss
you and often wish that I could resign my mission to enjoy again

b

 

