XIV
INTRODUCTION

literary point of view, it has seemed best to give here a
brief summary of each: ”

Ι.

Greetings to you, Guarnerius Burdo, from one who get
his name from Torta.. Even in these times you are a poet. Al
though every Muse has long since fied the forests and dancing
bands the Theban hills, and Aganippe’s vales are still and the
very spring 01 Pegasus is dry and you can hardly find one to
read your verses, you sing and sing in clear-voiced strains. Gone
is the time when poetry was 01 value ; you would starve, if poetry
alone be your delight. No matter what form of verse you write,
no one rewards it, and he who can give shuts his ears like an
{isoilsenviigimjniilyJiiffiiihgi‘ieiiss'iiihi 11ὴῖ11111
he would starve. Writing is the gift to bards 01 generous pa3
trons and Vergil country-bred was sent by Mantua to Rome to
be the friend of high-born men. Horace, a freedman's son, a
tribune under Brutus, won from Maecenas his acres watered by
Bandusia. Terence, friend of‘ Scipio, won his freedom by his
skillful pen, and you, Ovid, facile-tongued, the ear of princes and
a rich wife. You were lifted high by the applausu of Rome but
the licence 01 your wit laid you low ; if you had been more cau-
tious in the time 01 victory, you would not be now lying in a
Getic romb. Cicero was 01 low-degree but the charm of 1115010-
quence made him a famous consul and the saviour of his country.
Livy's fame brought princes of the East to sechim, not Rome.
Ι1 you turn to the Gree'ks, you will findas many names in the
five arts as are the leaves that fall beneath the first blast of Boreas.
But they had leaders, too, in other arts, Demosthenes, Socrates,
Aristotle, whom Philip honored like a god, Xenocrates, Diogenes
the Cyme, Plato, Pythagoras, Isocrates, Aeschylus, Euripides,
Homer, and many more to mention whom is irksome, all 01 whom
had courage‘, because 01 generous gifts, to suffer toil and to spend
sleepless nights. But why should we ? In our day learning brings
no reward to any man. Money does, but not high birth or good
manners or letters. v The writer, therefore, is but wasting time.
Better pursue ease, indulge in food and games and sleep. so
Epicurus the Pig advised, preferring pleasure to utility. We do

 

