XXI
INTRODUCTION

'all the islands of the Aegean Sea sent forth what strength they
could. All these, led ΒΥ Patroclus, came 'to Dyrrachium, be-
{liedulfoilleilllltaglshlhfl{nssefllhssllyfysslnssrlssll
for! Cut down the little hedge that is before youl Remember
that you are Gauls and that Gauls took Romel Can you have
fear of these untrained bordes, effeminate Greeks and Barbarians ?
Advance, fortune is ready to smile upon your daring l » His
ἶῖἓὲὲῖἶ {ll} {Tlfrsfill tint-titt li} tttt‘hllisitffihlt
the deeds of ancient times, how your sires destroyed, Troy, de-
feated Xerxes, served with Alexander to overcome the worldl
Behold‚ the harvest now is ripe Ι1 Advance‚ and naught can stay
llllliffilllshklildesilitlilii?lflellassrlsfgefie'
Greeks are winning, when Guid0, chiding his men, takes the lead
in the attack and slays many of his enemies, but he is wounded
ΒΥ Basilus and withdraws. His men press on and finally preyail ;
the Greeks retreat, their weapons thrown away, degenerare sons
of mighty men of yore. The news of this defeat is woful to the
Emperor but he resolves to fight again. Bohemond marshalls
his forces in his tum, and the armies meet again, new leaders in
the place of those who had been slain‚ on the plains of Avellon. .
They fight on even terms, until Bohemond, by his taunting
words, inspires his troops to fresh assay, and they, in spite of
braye defense by the enemy, force their foes to fiee, all but a
few led by Patroclus, who fights like a boar at bay. But Bohe-
mond and his braye soldiers win the day and the Greeks are
scattered in retreat. The Emperor, knowing now that he was
nor equal in the field of war, gladly makes a treaty with his con-
queror, and both withdraw, each into his own land. This was
the year, Guido, in which Philip left his throne to his son Louis
and Spain's king dies. These events, which happened in my day,

{hhavp set forth for y0u; the rest, dear friend, you know better
an .

IX.

Your greeting is welcome to me, Robert, may mine be wel-
come to you⁴ In showing that you remember me, you prove
yourself a man of steadfast mind, not like Ulysses, whose craft

 

