INTRODUCTION

Mauri, and Miracula S. Benedicti (ι). At the end there are
four pieces which may or may not be from the hand of
Tortarius: Epitaphius Petri Abailardi, Elogium Petri,
Elogium Cluniacum, and De Ovo.

The De Memorabilibus is rather more than earlier cri-
tics assume it to be, namely, a poetic version of the Facto
rum et Dictorum Memorabilium Libri IX of Valerius Maxi,-
mus, since portions of Books I and II, in addition to the
material drawn from Valerius Maximus, represent a universal
chronicle. Whether these portioris were composed by
Tortarius from original sources, or whether they represent
a summary of some preceding chronicis, will have to be a
matter for further study. We haye added at the end of
this Introduction the possible sources for them, together
with the corresponding passages in Valerius Maximus (a)
which serve as sources for the rest of the work. ¹

Of the eleven Letters the eighth is so mutilated as to
make interpretation almost impossible, the tenth is addressed
to a brother, evidently much younger than Rodulfus, an'd
the remainder to friends who are for the most part unknown.
It has been suggested (3) that the Peter to whom Epistle X
is addressed is to be identified with Peter the Venerable of
Cluny. The person to whom Epistle VI is addressed, a
certain Sincopus, is apparently fictitious (4). Since these
Letters are so important both from a historical and from a

*—

(1) In the judgment of Eugene de Certain (Bibl. de l’Ec. des Chartes, 1855,
p. 498) this order represents the order of composition, and in general this conclu-
sion is probably correct, although it need not be supposed that all the Letters
were written in the order in which they appear.

(a) A question of prime importance is the relation between the MS. tradition
of the De Memorabilibus of Tortarius ancl the work of Valerius Maximus, especially
as represented by Laurentianus 1899 and Bernensis Ι366 and the first and second
hands of these MSS. Miss Schullian is now engaged upon this problem and expects
to present the results of her study within the next year.

(3) Cf. de Certain, op. cit, p. 517.

(4) Attempts have been made to identify him with Abelard; cf. the refuta-
tion by de Certain, op. cit.‚ p. 507.

 

