XXIV
INTRODUCTION

divinity rules our earthly haps, but merely chance; but chance
does not confer happiness, nor does any star. Agathos alone pro-
{355{lidulffilssslihiiiihieffiiissehithwibffhilii}eiiii*
The common crowd may call God fate, but God is greater than
fate, nor is our free will hampered by any compulsion of Provi-
dence, nor does the perfect knowledge of God urge anyone to
act against his will. So much for these matters of the stars
and fate. Nor death nor envious Atropos will break the bond
of our friendship. My only wish is that we were not so far apart
anfd that 1 could say with my lips the word Ι have to write,
« arewell >).

XI.

This letter, brother, carries greetings from a brother. We
are far apart and Ι am worried on your behalf. Such ties of blood
as bind you and me together cannot be broken and ancient story
affords many examples of what brother should do for brother
and son for father. Your brothers, secking revenge upon our
enemies for our father’s death, themselves met death, and now
only you and I remain. I could not lately visit my home again
because of my enemies and I am wondering how you fare with
them, whether they are stem or kind. Report has reached me
that Fortune has turned her back on you, andin my troubled
sleep a vision came of you, in which you said to my advice
that you be on your guard, «Agathos does not permit me.»
An eager search has taught me that Agathos is God, without
whose will no one is good, whose chastening isablessing which
leads to heaven. Who would ascend thither, must be borne
on the four wings of Courage, Temperance, Wisdom, Justice.
I judge that you shun the companionship of the idle and the
profligate, and you yourself were not of slothful spirit. Many
are wild in youth and upright in later years; others change from
good to bad ; still others never change. May you always love the
οοῐῐιρειιῑῖήοξ1 tIhe good apdfigaltdherfthe fertiledseeds, unmixed with
tares‚w c sowmte e 0 our min.

(The remainder of the letted, vss. 90-256, consists of a
series of moral injunctions, expressed in couplets or in single
lines).

 

