XXXVII
INTRODUCTION

evidence for at least two hands, and possibly a third, in the
text itself, and there has been much correcting done by
what may be still another hand. The first change is in the
hand of Epistula VI, which differs from the hand of the

preceding folios both in form'of letters and in the inlr

used. This second hand is responsible also for Epistula
VII3 the following letters are in the original ink, written
possibly by other hands or by the original hand using a
different pen. The original hand reappears without doubt
in the Passio and continues through the Hymnus and to
v. 98 5 of the Miracula. The following verses are in the hand
of Epistulae VI and VII. This same hand is often found
in corrections throughout the MS, and the possibility of
the author’s having done his own revision is not to be too
readily excluded. Extraneous material at the beginning and
end of the MS. proper and on f. 27v, together with additional
corrections throughout, exhibita variety of hands.

It becomes clear on examination of the makeup of the

MS. that the gatherings are not entirely regular. The first ¹

indication is the numeral iii at the bottom of f, z6v. There
is a jump then to vi, next to x, and xii, and xiiii, and xv;

, after this xvii, xviii xix, xx, and xxi follow in due order.

It is clear that it is not always four folios which are gathered
together, and that there have been cuttings in certain places.

The earlier, and certain of the later, folios of the MS.
are almost entirely illegible, due to contact at some time
with a moist object. This is especially true of the folios
containing Epistula VIII. In addition, the first few folios
are blaekened as if by fire, and both circumstances are possi-
bly due t0 the sack of Fleury by the Huguenots in 1562.
The first folio, unnumbered, bears on its verso a few lines
of what appears to bea recipe of some kind, and below
these material written in a different hand and now illegible.
The next folio is difficult to make out, but contains evi-

 

