XIX
INTRODUCTION

that child's kind thought. All I asked from you was to be loved
in turn, but Ι am hurt that you have' failed my hopes of you and
have given yourself to sloth. Awake‚ put off idleness, and lay up
now the fruit that will be a store for later years.

VI.

Sincopus‚ watchman of lovely Flora, be on your guard and
bar the doorsl Remember how Danae, shut up in tower strong
away from men, was made a mother by a shower of gold! The
importunate old woman, breathing poison in her ears, may move
her yet ; constant dripping of water wears away a stone. The
town is talking of two youths who are rivals for her favors and
Flora is aflame with these two fires. Both youths are handsome,
dress in gorgeous style, both are rich and captains of the guard,
and both are eager to enjoy the love of Flora. And what a
prize she is l A face like snow on which is laida glowing red,
and grace in all her limbs and not a blemish anywhere. Ι, too,
could fall in love with her, but I have a Flora, Sincopus, who
ffllffd‘li? ilalialsthielililiiillwmdetillli²l⁰3ibit
But tell me, a'nll may you beylucky' in your master’s trustg of k
you, why are you an eunuch? What evil deed did you commit
to merit such a punishment? «I did no ill »‚ said Sincopus3
«Ι am not base; but listen to the story of my plight. I was
a student, poor but longing to be rich, and when Ι saw the
Galli, priests of Hecate, wearing gold and 'gems and having
stores of grain and wine and wealth of every sort, I knew that
I could be one of them and share their riches‚ if 1 became an
eunuch. So an eunuch I became and joined the fraternity.
I learned their teachings, all the proper rites for all the gods,
and soon became the second in command, waxing rich in money,
slaves, and flocks. I freely gave and many came to seek my
hospitahty. Ihad burned my members and had mixed the
ashes, my secret kept from all, with ground pepper, and kept
the mixture guarded as one would gold. But the wheel of luck
was turning. Many guests arrived —I chanoed to be away -
and my steward prepared for them a feast. Alas, my evil lotl
There was not pepper in the house and without pepper feast
there could not be. A slave went out to seek fot some but the

 

