XXIII
INTRODUCTION

battle with a whale. After this, I visited the noble cathedra] of
Bayeurr, wonderfully adorned within with polished marble and
without with sculptured images and ornaments of gold. Ι
entered the modest home oia scholar and, since Ι had lunched, Ι
asked for wine. But Bacchus is not lord of that region and the
goblet offered me was filled with cider. I made pretense of
drinking and wiped my lips, but whispered to the servant as

Ι handed back the cup, «why serve me poison?» A thrush was
there which spoke with the voice of man: strange that a bird,
though lacking human speech, should wish to utter language not
his owni I bade farewell to Bayeux, never to return unless
I've had my wine. Although I have confessed that I am slow
hahita {rihhilt} Illehhhl‘sshllhlgh frigide?
to carry to you, «good-byca.

X.

For old friendship's sake, Peter, you deserve a place in my
writings‚ nor will you, even though you are a second Ovid and
all the Muses have enriched you with then gifts‚ scorn my humble f
song. You are more to me than I can tell and, knowing your
worth and your wisdom‚ Iam not surprised that you have become
great among the great and have been called to anew dignity.
You are wise in things above and things below and your charm
of speech wins you every favor. Therefore it is fitting to turn
to you for knowledge, justas one seeks out a master in his craft;
each ean do that which he has practised most ; the mason knows
how to build, the hunter where to stretch his nets, the farmer‘
when to plough and sow, the general how to arrange his troops.
One does not ask a knight to plant a vineyardorametal-wor er
to sow seed or a weaver to solve problema in astronomy. Hence
to learn of this Ι turn to you Some hold that the stars are
masters of our fate, that they are the causes of our ills ; but this
thought does heaven's just powers an injustice. 'Others think
that God delegares his power to the stars z but this idea robs man
of any freedom of his own. Some look upon the stars as signs of
the future but without power of their own: but this assigns to
them a right which belongs to God. Still others say that no

 

