XX
INTRODUCTION

sultuna{attentatas&saltemsalter
a monstrous thing they did When I retitrned, Ι ξοιιξά the
fragments of my box and learned what had been done. ‘Alas‚
O holy gods ’‚ Ι cried‚ ‘how have 1 offended in my ministry ?
Ι must have given dues of you above to you below, confused the
rites‚ and used improper names l Else why did a robber steal the
secret consecrated to you? Alas, how wild is fortunel how
uncertain, Fate'l My servants heard my words and guessed
the truth and Gossi carried their talk beyond my walls. The
{illitam}mtiihtltffikttoelktrklalttthmtt
name. Thus robbed of all, Ι left my home and came to Flora's
husband who, guessing I was unsexed‚ appointed me companion
of his Flora. Ihave told you all; don't make my story common
knowledge or mingle false with true».

Vll.

My years were five and forty when I took up my pen and
white hairs were seen among the black. Then all the world
was under arms and Bohemond had assembled men from all
the West, from the shores of the distant sea to the straits of Sicily
and all the islands of the Ocean, English, Gauls, Saxons, Franks
and Normans, men from Genoa and Pisa, Tuscans and Umbrians.
Titese diverse peoples‚ each armed its native way, cameto the
port of Bari, as many as are the birds of the air or the sands of
the sea, differing in manners and in speech. They build them
ships. Apulia and Calabria and Sicily send them flocks and herds
and grain. They crass the sea, and soon the trumpets call to
war and forth they go, destroy fields and towns and lay siege to
Dyrrachium (Durazzo). The Emperor hears of their victorious
advance and in his fear calls to his aid the far-flung peoples
subject to his rule. Thebes sends its war-like hordes and the and
that takes its name from Rome (Roumania); the Parthians come
and Turks‚ Christ’s enemies, and Greeks from the Muses’ Mount
and those who dwell along the Meander. Honor kept learned
Athens from sending her scant remains, nor could Troy offer
aught but the ashes of Achilles. Nor did the Syrians come but

 

