XV
INTRODUCTION

not accept his dangerous teaching but tread the narrow path
which leads to heaven, knowing that the highest good is God.
We shun ease that the mind may not be caught on its deadly
hook and virtue shrivel while vice grows rank. Therefore we
write and meditate and give no rest to our mind, although we
do not write, as many do, for fame. Here then I have revealed
to you my reason for writing‚ fearing to be the prey of Envy's

bitter tooth in sending you, at your request, the books l've
written on Wonders. ’

,, n.

= This letteris written, Bernard, to·.show you the value of
true friendship. Fidelity should be its only test, not money or
farne. Nisus and Euryalus, of whom Vergil sings‚ Damon and
Pythias, are atterns of true friendship, each ready to die in his
friend's behail, and history tells of many more whose love held fast μ
through storm and stress: Phrixus and Helle, Icarus and his
father Daedalus Tydeus and Oedipus, and above all, Amelius
and Amicus, whose story, known in Gaul and Britain, so far trans-
cends the fair goal of belief, that many think it but a tale. But
some truth is mingled with the false and this will show what
love can do. These two, born of high station, surpassing all in
beauty and prowess in arms, met at the court of King Gaiferus ’
of Poitiers and the friendship there formed even death could not
break, for they lie buried together near Vercellae. They were
dear to the king, to the courtiers, to Queen Bertha and dear was
Amelius above all else to the young princcss Beliardis who,
wounded by a dart from Cupid's bow, is all enflamed with
love. Her secretis disclosed to the Queenbythejealous Ardradus
and the Queen, raging like a lioness robbed of her cubs, carries
the matter to the king. He, although indignant that his daughter
be in disrepute, is unwilling to condemn Amelius without a trial.
The judges decide that the informer Atdradus and Amelius must
fight a duel and both give pledges for their appearance on the
appointed day. Amelius seeks outlAm'icus, who happens to be
tingintinasarnitannazarenns:
{lsseslll illaillattdglttttiltkltlhtltktlthllt
placed between them. Nor can any guess that Amicus is the

 

