xvi
’ turnonucrion

champion‚ not Amelius. The duel begins and when each has
killed the other’shorse, they fight on foot, until Amicus’ blade
is shattered by a blow. Ardradus thinks the battle w0n‚ but, as
he raises his mighty battle-axe, he slips and falls, aprey, then,
to Amicus. But he is weaponless and only when the princess,
who is watching from a window of the palace, sees his plight and
sends him her father’s sword, once mighty Roland'S, is he able
to overcome his foe and thus prove the innocence of Beliardis.
As Amelius he takes his reward, the princess and much Wealth
and returns, amid the great rejoicing of the people, to his Ἴ
friend, the real Amelius. They resume their proper persons,
Amelius weds the princess, and returns with her to bis own land.
After some years have passed, Amicus, now a leper, dri-
ven from his home by his pitiless wife, comes a beggar to Amelius'
house, where both Amelius and hiswife receive him royally.
Since no medicine can heal his sores but the blood ofa child,
Amelius shows his loyalty by slaying, hiding the cleed froin the
mother, his two sons, the blood of whom washes clean Amicus’
wounds and makes him whole again. And then a-miraclel The
mother finds her sons alive, playing with crimson apples Amicus
departs, never to suffer henceforth from his sores. This tale Ι
tell you, my dear friend, that you may learn the meaning of true
friendship, than which justice alone is to be more prized.

ΙΙΙ.

, If you ask, Odo, whether I write to you because Ι hrve
material gifts to give you, 1 must reply that Ι have not. But
1 have a gift which rust cannot corrupt nor thieves steal, that of

sweet intercourse with wise men of 0 d with whom our so-called
wisc men, beset as they are with passions‚ are not to be compared.
Was there fear in Archimedes' heart when he scorned the sword
of him who slew him ? Or in Socrates', when he drank the poi-
soned cup ? Or in Diogenes’,-disdaining burial? Or in Seneca's,
calmly dying in his bath? The fear that besets the great the Si-
cilian tyrant disclosed when above the guest athis feast he hung
a sword by slender cord. No greed inflamed Diogenes, who
was content to live exposed to storin and wind and to be fed
by gifts of daily bread; nor Democritus, who, scorning his
father's wealth‚ spent his days in Athens with his books, nor

 

