XVIII
INTRODUCTION

sweet converse with you. Success without you loses its flavot
and the worry which comes with it often makes me think that
better after all is the enjoyment of the society of my friend.
But let the words which Ι now write abide forever in your mind.
Seek honor and love for God and wisdom. Broad is the way
taken by fools, but narrow the path of justice and trod by few.¹
Avoid the lure of unholy love ; seek the society of wisc and gentle
men; keep your body clean and your mind pure ; hold fast to
the manners that were your birth-right3 do naught that would
prove false my praise of you ot make of no avail my efforts in
your behalf. Prove yourself a worthy pupil of my tmehing,
just as Achilles by his deeds did honor to the stern training of
his master Chiron: ¹Let the fite from heaven overcome in you
the flames of Cocytus and see that base urging does not prevail
against the pure.

V.

Perehance you have forgotten the name of your teacher,
although one born of high lineage does not forger and I pray
that my suspicion may be unfounded. we are far apart‚ you
say, since Ι have left my native soil and moved my home to the
west, near the confines of the setting sun, hard by the Pillars of
Hercules, while you live in the north, in the land washed by
the loud-sounding Scine, nor do you see how you can show
llll titillat}fitttlltttttt {liengiltsn‘lltbleslid
fer to give to you rather than to receive from you. We arepfar
apart but you could, you must admit, have sent me some word
of greeting such as I. now send you. Many travellcrs come this
th {lillis lihnlllliat‘indpllaispssil kelliae tlirllll
within your heart you feel tesentment still that I spared not the
rod when you were young. I had to strike you then because
you would not put your mind to work, although I often faltered‚
won by your enticements, in my stem purpose. Be not like
hateful Nero who put his kindly teacher Seneca, known to all
mankind, to death. Just as the husbandman, who tends care-⁸
fully his plants, will be worthy of their rich harvest, so will he,
who has trained a child with friendly foresight, be worthy of

 

